Instructions for setting up a new codeblocks project for Urho3D c++ applications:

Go to "Project/Build Options"
On the left hand side, select your project name (rather than debug or release)
because the changes we will make apply to both debug and release...

Click on "Search Directories.
With "Compiler" tab enabled (default I believe), click the "Add" button (near bottom of window)
Click the button with three little dots "..." and locate your "UrhoBuild/Source" folder.. add that path.
Done?
Add a second search path: "UrhoBuild/Source/ThirdParty".
Done?

Now click on "Linker Settings"... make sure youur project name is still selected on left hand side for "global settings"!!!
Click "Add", and surf to your "UrhoBuild/lib" folder - select your "libUrho3D.lib" file (for linux its typically libUrho3D.a)
At this point, the linker settings for windows and linux will vary...
I'll spell out the linux settings, and we'll work out the settings for Windows and document them later.
I needed to add two more libs: "/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libdl-2.27.so" and "/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libGL.so"
You'll need to add, at least, "opengl32.lib" and "glu32.lib"

On the right hand side, I required the following "other linker options":
-pthread
-ldl
-lGL
-lGLU
-lGLEW

I'm not certain what you'll need there for Windows, we'll find out soon enough!
Shut the Project Build Options dialog.

Before doing anything further, go to top left "File/Save everything"
This will "lock in" your changes to project settings: if you crash codeblocks without saving settings, the changes will be lost!

You're now ready to "try" to build your first Urho c++ application...
If we get build errors, we need to fix them before going further.
If the app builds, I expect it to produce an error message telling us that the app cannot locate the resource folder!
Should you see this message, make a copy of "UrhoBuild/bin" folder, and paste it in your project folder.
You get a different error message this time... can't remember exactly what it is, but I know how to proceed.

We need to go to "Project/Properties"...
Click on "Build targets".
For both debug and release, change the output filename to "bin/UrhoTest.exe" (for linux, lose the ".exe" extension)
Also change the "Execution working dir" to simply "bin"
Close the dialog.
Go to "File/Save everything"...
Let's try again... this time, our app should run!
The "Hello World" application should simply look like a black window.
If you see a black window, congratulations - our first urho app is working as intended!



















